The debate over gun control revives after each mass shooting. The slayings in Las Vegas brought top National Rifle Association executive Chris Cox to Fox News Sunday.

The NRA had called on the government to immediately review whether bump stocks comply with federal law. Bump stocks are the devices that allow a semiautomatic weapon to closely mimic full automatic firing and were found on 12 of the shooter’s rifles.

On other ideas for gun regulation, Cox, executive director of the NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action, remained skeptical. Both Cox and Fox News host Chris Wallace raised points that come up often in discussions of gun policy -- and deserve a closer look.

This is largely accurate, with the caveat that the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives actually said the bump stock "is not regulated as a firearm under the Gun Control Act or the National Firearms Act." Whether that qualifies as approval is in the eye of the beholder, but we found two occasions in which ATF decided it could not regulate bump stocks during the Obama administration.

In 2010 and 2012, ATF told two separate manufacturers that there was no prohibition on bump stocks because "the stock has no automatically functioning mechanical parts or springs and performs no automatic mechanical function when installed." This meant the stock is a firearm part, not a firearm itself, and not subject to regulation.

Cox: "Congress banned semi-automatics and high-capacity magazines for 10 years. And Bill Clinton's own Justice Department said it had no impact on crime."
It’s not accurate to say Clinton’s own Justice Department reached such a definitive conclusion.

When Congress passed the 1994 assault weapons ban, it called for a study to assess the impact. That work came in several installments from 1997 to 2004 (when the ban expired), giving advocates on both sides material that they can cherry-pick to prove their point.

The reports were funded through the Justice Department but were done by outside researchers and came with warnings that say they don’t reflect the position or policies of the department.
